{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil Calibri;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\i\f0\fs24\lang8192\tab\i0 Interview with Thomas Bolander and students at DIS at 12/12/2023\i\f1\lang2057\par
\par
T: Did you get surprised sometimes about the choice of the co-player? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: We had one moment, I think we where I just had not quite considered all the ramifications of\'85 I think I had a six and you had a seven. \par
\par
S2: Yes. So my thinking was that possibly that they had had an eight, so they would think that I had a nine, so therefore I should play a black stone.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah. \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Whereas I was not thinking about what you would think I would think. And so I was like, oh, well, you'll either have a seven or a five. So that's what I should\'85 and then I did not consider the psychology there.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: But after that?\par
\par
\i0\f2 S1: After that, yeah. Then, like, we were much more, like, one of us has, like, a six or a seven. We were playing black stones very consistently. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Right, but then would you still sometimes play a white stone?\i0\f2  \par
\par
S1: I don't think we did.\par
\par
S2: We never lost money after that. \par
\par
S1: Yeah, I think in that scenario, we played black stones each time.\par
\par
S2: Yeah, so there were situations where, I remember one time, one of us had a seven, the other had an eight, and obviously we easily could have won $4 instead of two. However, we both decided to play black stones in that situation because I think we both valued that, right? It would be better if we got two less dollars than if we lost all of our money. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yes, I agree. Yeah. If you want to maximize your reward. That seems sensible. But did you then\'85 So was the reasoning kind of\'85 ehm\'85 \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Just in any scenario where the other person could, like, even think that you had one of them think that you had a nine? \par
\par
S2: Yeah, or an eight, then we just played black. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay, but then after you got this, would there be a situation where you would still have played white? Like, if you had a two, for instance? \par
\par
\i0\f2 S1: Oh, yeah. I mean, we would still play white if it was like a two or three or four and a five.\par
\par
S2: Up to six. \par
\par
S1: Yeah, up to six. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Up to six? Okay. And you both thought in the same way?\par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Yeah. \par
\par
S2: Yeah.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay. But is that then a good strategy to play to play white up to six?\i0\f2  \par
\par
S1: I think so. If you're just trying to maximize, like, you're not going to get perfect score, but you're also not risking losing at all at that point, like losing all of your money.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: But are you not risking it? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: What do you mean? \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay, so this is kind of a strategy where you said up to this point, right, I'm playing white, and beyond that, I'm playing black. So the question is if it\rquote s a safe strategy where you are not risking to lose all your money, or is it still a risky strategy? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: It's a safe strategy, but you're not maximizing your reward.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Is it wise if it's six or below? Is that it?\par
\i0\f2\par
S2: I think generally that\rquote s how we were applying. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: But then if one of you gets a six and the other one gets a seven. \par
\par
\i0\f2 S1: Well, if that person had a seven\'85\par
\par
S2: I suppose that it just ended up working.\par
\par
S1: Yeah, we didn't end up with that scenario, actually. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: No, that was your luck\i0\f2 ,\i\f1  then. \par
\par
\i0\f2 S1: Actually, that did happen. We both played black. \par
\par
S2: Yeah. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay. Yeah.\i0\f2  \par
\par
S2: Where we have both had black? Because I think one of us thought that the other had.\i\f1\par
\par
\i0\f2 S1: You know, I had the six. Oh, yeah. Because it was the time after I had initially fucked up and so then I was on a high alert of, like, oh, shit, don't want to do that again. We had won, like, one or two more rounds and then had that scenario, I think. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah. So you somehow changed your strategy a bit during the game?\par
\i0\f2\par
S1: It was not that consistent. I was also trying to, like, I had realized, like, three or four rounds in also that I was just continually holding the black stone in my left hand and the white stone in my right hand and then realized, fuck, I can't do that, and then started shuffling the stones before I put one on the table.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah, okay, okay. And what kind of strategy did you play? \par
\i0\f2\par
S3: I feel like it was a little weird because we got a lot of, like, four and five. We got very few that were sort of, like, on the boundary. And I think once we did, it kind of broke down because we got like, seven in a row that were like the highest card was like a six for like, seven rounds in a row. So we had all these two white stones built up and then it was like an eight and a seven, and we miscommunicated. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: And what is the boundary?\i0\f2  \par
\par
S4: I think at the very first point where we miscommunicated because I had played, I believe, a white stone because I had a seven. And I was saying to myself, like, well, if I have an eight, then it's possible he has a nine. So until it's an eight, I'll play white. But I didn't think of the fact that he had an eight and would be thinking I could have a nine. And so then after that point, I had to start thinking more about whether you had. like, eight or sevens and then thought, I could have an eight and play black. And then I think that's where in the middle, we kind of started trying to figure out what our strategy was. \par
\par
S3: My thought process was, like, when you get an eight, it's like there's a 50% chance that they have a nine and we'll guarantee black, and then there's 50% chance they have a seven, but within that, there's a chance they'll play black and a chance they'll play white. So black felt like the safe option on an eight, just like because it's got better than 50% odds was sort of my approach on that. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah, right, so can you say that again? So if you got an eight, is that it. \par
\par
\i0\f2 S3: Yes. So if, like, I have an eight in my hand\'85\par
\par
\i\f1 T: \'85and then they get a nine, and then you have to play and then they would necessarily play black. So in that case, you know, you would have to play black. But then you say if they get a seven, it's 50/50.\par
\i0\f2\par
S3: Yeah. They might play black or white. So it's like them playing black is more likely when I have an eight was my thought process.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah. That I see. But then if if you think they get seven, how do you deduce that then the the chance of them playing white is 50 and black 50? \par
\i0\f2\par
S3: I don't necessarily know 50/50. I just know there is some amount of chance they'll play black on a seven\'85 +50% of the time on a nine.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: But did you also think in terms of probabilities? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Yeah.\par
\par
S2: Yeah, I guess\'85 I suppose I did. I mean, I think it was more to some extent. \par
\par
S4: I didn't think of probabilities. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: No. So what did you do? \par
\i0\f2\par
S4: I think I was the whole time just trying to think of a rule, at which point to stop playing white to start playing black.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: And did you find the rule? \par
\i0\f2\par
S4: There isn't really one because then it would just keep going backwards and just play black all the time. To be 100% safe. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah. But did you then consider to play black all the time? \par
\i0\f2\par
S4: Not once the actual game had started. I think you mentioned right before the game that you were also thinking maybe we could just play black the whole time \endash  and it would have ended up better for us. But you feel like if you have safe cards, then you might as well play white. \par
\par
S1: It's like a sunk cost fallacy of, like\'85 \par
\par
\i\f1 T: indeed it is a fallacy. Right. Because if you compute the expected reward, right? Then the problem is that the penalty of miscoordination is so high that it doesn't pay off. But was that clear, in a way? Let me also ask that: Was it clear from the rules that if you were, like, miscoordinated just once, then it would probably not pay off and it would be better to play just black/black all the time? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: The way I was thinking about it was that, for me, I was considering halfway through the game, switching to just playing black, because once you make it past the halfway point in my mind is where it's worth considering that\'85\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay, to have something left at the end, at least. \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Yeah. Because if you do that early, like, if you fuck up early in the game\'85 I should not curse for your interview.\par
\par
T: No, that's fine. I will put it in the paper and I will have your name and address\'85. haha\'85. \par
\par
S1: I completely lost my train of thought. Oh, yeah. If you mess up early in the game, like, it's more recoverable because you have more than half of the game left. But once you have\'85 If you have earned already half the game, then switching over I think is potentially beneficial. Like, if we could have communicated in advance, honestly, it's probably, like\'85 or if we were to play another round and we're able to communicate in advance, I'd be like, let's figure out the vibes. And then if we get to the halfway point on this round, then we only play black for the rest.\par
\par
S2: But also it's necessarily what needs to happen. Because if we were supposed Thomas gave us a four and a five, we obviously know that it's within the boundary. So at that point we could play. I think that it\rquote s mainly\'85\par
\par
S1: \'85 It\rquote s for the person that has a five. They could think that the other person has a six. And if they think the other person has a six, then they could think that that person has a seven and so on. \par
\par
S2: Nesting through all the four loops, if we go through that, the person has a five thinks the other person has a six, which means that the other person has a seven. Seven is within the boundary. \par
\par
S1: True. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: But then you can iterate once more, right? \par
\i0\f2\par
S2: Yeah. But then that would be null for the fact that the cards are a four and a five. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay. So one question related to this. So imagine that you could before you started playing the game, you could have agreed with your co-player about a number, and then you say, okay, if it's below this, then you choose white, otherwise black. What would that number be? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Five. \par
\par
S2: No, I think it has to be six.\par
\par
S1: But then you have the six and seven situation of when the person has seven, it's a little dicey.\par
\par
S2: No, because if the person has seven. That means the other card is either six or eight. \par
\par
S2: Yeah, but if they're concerned that the other person has an eight, then they're also concerned that that person thinks they have a nine and will play black. Because whenever I had an eight, I would play black. \par
\par
S2: Yeah.\par
\par
S1: And therefore if you're playing white there, it would be a mismatch. Right. \par
\par
S3: I don't think setting like a specific target would work. Frankly, just because it'll always kind of cascade out at a certain point. Like, oh, they could have this. And so I feel like more of like a loose rule, kind of like if you're confident, we'll lean on white and then after the halfway point, just like stick with black, I think would maybe be better. If you have a two, three, four, if it feels right, more than just, like, here's the hard limit. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: But if it's about what feels right, right? Then that might\'85 Either what feels right is that always certain numbers feel right and certain doesn\rquote t, right? And it's static. It's true all the way through the game or it changes over time. And if it changes over time, then I guess you're worse off than if it's fixed, right? Because you make yourself unpredictable to your co-player, right? And therefore it seems to me that you would have to say, okay, but then what feels right? It has to be somehow a fixed number, right? And then the question again is what number that is?\par
\i0\f2\par
S3: But yeah, I mean, maybe like six. It's got to have a little bit of padding from the actual from nine, I feel like. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah, but the problem again is\'85 The thing is, because, even if you agree on it, you say, okay, anything six or below that's black, right? Then there will be a situation where one has six and the other one has seven, and then you're miscoordinating. So in reality, and I think you also said it, right, at some point you said that it's cascading all the way. And I think you also said that you also talked about, like, playing all black, right? That you somehow, because\'85. That actually it is the only safe strategy, right? You cannot choose a cut-off point, because no matter what the cut off-point is, then one can be on one side of the cut-off point and the other on the other\'85 so\'85 Right, so, another question related to this. So imagine you get a three. Is it then is it then common knowledge between you and your co-player that it's safe to choose white? \par
\par
\i0\f2 S1: Yeah.\i\f1  \par
\par
\i0\f2 S2: Yes. \par
\par
S3: Yeah. \par
\i\f1\par
T: Okay. \i0\f2 Why? \par
\par
S3: Having a three or a four in your hand, I feel like those are both very confident. \par
\par
S1: There were two.\par
\par
S3: Yeah, well, I was just sticking to the optimal\'85 if you have a three and the other person has a four, that's where the question comes in. And I feel like even in that case, like a four is like miles away and so it's pretty, like, it's not going to cascade that far, I feel like.  \par
\par
S1: What's the name of the psychology thing where they put people in a room and they're, like, there's a pile of money in this room, if all of you take it, like none of you win. Thing\'85\par
\par
S3: Sounds like the marshmallow experiment. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: No, but it's different. No, maybe it's not. No, the marshmallow, then you get more marshmallows. If you don't eat it, you get more when you are done. But this is, like you said, about\'85 all it depends on is whether everybody takes money. Is that it? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Yeah. So there's a pile of money in the room and if everyone wants to take a chunk of it, nobody gets the money. Whereas everybody\'85 If all but one\i\f1 ,\i0\f2  or any other mixed people take money, as long as someone declines to take money, then other people get to have it. This game felt a bit like that in a weird way in my head. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay. Yeah, no, but I guess all these coordination games is about trying to predict what the other player does, right? \par
\i0\f2\par
S1: Oh, it was the Milgram experiments\'85 is what was going on in my head this entire time.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Yeah. Okay, so you talked about, like, it would be safe. It's around six or seven or something. It depends a bit. But you don't necessarily agree on that, then?\par
\i0\f2\par
S4: I feel like you can't really set a limit. But there are cards like twos, threes and fours where it's just unspoken that you play white because there's no way that the other person will think you have a really high card.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay, right, okay, so you would say, like, two, is\'85 that's safe\'85 white? \par
\i0\f2\par
S4: Yeah. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: But then three is also safe white. And then\'85\par
\i0\f2\par
S4: I know it's really contradictory, but every time we had fours and fives, we would always play white. We would never consider that the other person would think that many steps ahead. Or at least I didn't think that many steps ahead. \par
\par
\i\f1 T:  Okay, so you're somehow relying on\'85 you think that there's a limit to how many iterations the other player will do. Is that it? That you somehow think that even if you understand that in principle, I can think about you thinking about me thinking about you thinking about me\'85 I can continue\'85. then you would somehow naturally say, yeah, but that is unrealistic. Is that what you say? You wouldn't believe other people to do so.\par
\par
\i0\f2 S2: Most people aren't really thinking even one step ahead from their partner, let alone, like, two. \par
\par
S1: Yeah, I think I was capping it too unconsciously. I was like, the second you said that, I was like, yeah, I was assuming that you were thinking two steps ahead.\par
\par
S2: Yeah, most people are probably thinking one to two steps ahead. I highly doubt a whole lot of people are thinking three. Three is very uncommon. I think anyone thinking more like four, five, six steps ahead is just kind of obsolete at that point. \par
\par
S1: They need to start playing instead. \par
\par
\i\f1 T: Okay, but let's say you were playing 100 rounds. That would be a bit boring, but let's say. Now after we discussed, what would you do? And you get the money. So it's money you get, and you can go out and celebrate afterwards. \par
\par
\i0\f2 S3: So it's real money? All black. \par
\par
S2: Me too.\par
\par
S1: Yeah. \par
\par
S3: Well, unless it's like two or three, all black.\par
\par
\i\f1 T: But two and three is white? But the problem is then, if you get a three and you play white. So even if you agreed on this strategy, your co-player could still get a four.\par
\par
\i0\f2 S2: But for four, you can still play white.\par
\par
S3: Yeah, I guess, like, if two iterations ahead of thinking is safe, then you're good. \par
\par
S2: You're stopping at, like, two. So suppose the person had five, the other person would either have to have six or a four. So if they had a six, that person would think, all right, either five or seven. So at that point, they know who you're with as well. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i\f1 T: Thanks a lot. Perfect. Thank you.\par
}
 